All right.
Welcome back.
So up until this point over items are flex items in a flex container whether they're squares or rectangles
or some other shape have been equally sized.
They take up the same space and they grow together sometimes or they would shrink together depending
on the constraints that's going to change now because we might want a lay out like this same three items.
Let's say this is a lay out for the main column or the main row on a web page like a blog or a game
review website where we have a main column that has some article content and then we have a left and
right.
Maybe this is a side bar.
And this is an advertisement.
We don't want them all to take up the same real estate the same proportion.
What we could do is say OK this main content should get more of the space allocated to it and needs
to get less and then we can also control how it behaves as we shrink the screen.
Should the advertisement shrink at the same rate as the main content.
I would assume most cases you want the ads to shrink a little bit faster than the article because the
articles are the most important part of your page.
Maybe you're terrible to your readers and you make the ads more important but the idea is that we have
control using Fluxbox in particular.
There's a property called fooks defines how a flex item will grow or shrink to fit the available space
in a container.
And that's the key part.
The available space and it's actually a shorthand property for three other properties.
We'll take a look at.
So just like Transition is a shorthand for transition delay transition duration and so on Flex is shorthand
for these three flex grow flex shrink and flex basis.
So we're going to go through these and we'll actually start with the last one flex basis.
It's on paper the easiest one.
It's kind of a weird name and it throws a lot of people off.
But essentially it's like with.
But it's not with it's different but in a lot of ways it works the same way except when it doesn't.
So what it does is really imagine we have a flex container and we're trying to fit five items in there.
We can set flex bases to be the initial ideal with the hypothetical ideal which we want them to take
up if they're in a row and that's before they're put in the container and then reality happens and maybe
the container is too small or too large and then that's where we come to flex grow and flex shrink but
Flex basis is our starting condition our initial ideal size for flex item.
So let me just quickly demonstrate what I mean.
So here we have zoom in a bit for boxes and each box right now has no flex basis assigned or with.
OK.
There's a bunch of empty space here.
But what I can do is say OK the ideal size for each one before they go in should be about 200 pixels
fact in type.
There we go.
You'll see OK that's fine.
There's enough room for them to take up 200 pixels each.
So that's what happens.
Or I could change it to be you know 300 pixels.
And there's still enough room so they all fit in there.
Or each 300 pixels or I could give them each 200 pixels but then say that box three should have a flex
basis of 100 pixels and that's the ideal size for it.
And so that's what happens.
So there's no problem so far.
This is just like with.
But where is different in one sense.
If I delete this if we're working with a column.
So rather than Flex direction row I can set flex direction column and let's give it a height so that
we're working with that.
So let's do height let's do maybe 80 VH OK and let me Slim this down just to add two boxes so it's easier
to see what's happening.
And if we go back up here and change our font size down to 50 pixels OK I can assign a flex basis and
let's do 150 pixels and save make this a bit bigger so you can see that each take up 150 pixels vertically
which is actually beat would be controlled by height and remember not with.
So that's one key distinction.
Flex basis is like with when you're working with Rose but it's also like height when you're working
with columns.
But you can also have a height defined just to show you.
So if I had height defined as 100 pixels and flex basis as 150 flex basis wins because remember this
is the ideal.
In our case height because it's a column the ideal height that we want but if we didn't have that it
would fall back on the height.
So Flex basis wins out.
It's the ideal height.
In this case but change it back to row.
And now what we have a bunch of extra space but now it's using flex bases to control the width
you get the picture.
Now point out there was a great article called The Difference Between with flex basis that I found online
by Ged.
Jet Ski guides he sorry from butchering that and then goes into a bunch of detail about how it's different
and how they're similar.
And there's a couple of things I'm not going to talk about right now but Flex basis is limited by Max
with so you can set a min and max with and you can have that work with flex basis.
But then the key thing is what happens when there's not enough space.
So let's see right now and this should be review.
If I gave flex basis something insane like a thousand pixels.
These are not a thousand pixels each.
What happens.
Well they shrink down to fit in there.
So we'll come back to how that works and how it decides how to shrink them and then the property flex
shrink is what's going to dictate that and what proportion they shrink.
But before we get there we're actually going to talk about flex growth.
So that's next step.